.\" MAPI man page
.\" for a quick overview:
.\" nroff -man -Tascii mapi_extraflib.3 |less
.\"
.TH MAPI_EXTRAFLIB 3 "December, 2004"
.SH NAME
MAPI extraflib \- Extra MAPI Function Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBCOOKING\fP       TCP/IP packet defragmentation and stream reassembly
\fBREGEXP\fP	    Regular expression pattern matching       
\fBTOP\fP   	    Returns top X values of a field

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Extra MAPI function library (extraflib) provides
a set functions that cover
advanced monitoring needs.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------
.IP "\fBCOOKING\fP (int \fIthreshold\fP, int \fItimeout\fP, int \fIret_once\fP, int \fIcollect\fP)"
Processes the packets of a flow according to the TCP/IP protocol
stack, by performing IP defragmentation and TCP stream reassembly.
The received packets are stripped from their TCP/IP headers and assembled into a
single cooked packet. The cooked packet has a pseudo TCP/IP header
containing the size of the cooked packet and the source and destination
IP addresses and port numbers.
A cooked packet is considered to be ready for processing under one
of the following conditions:
.nf
  - its size exceeds the specified threshold
  - a timeout since the arrival of the first fragment is reached
  - the session is closed (all fragments have arrived)
.fi
The \fIthreshold\fP is by default 32KB
and the \fItimeout\fP is set to 30 sec.
Using -1 for both parameters sets the default values.
If \fIret_once\fP is zero, only the first chunk from a tcp stream is returned.
Otherwise, all the chunks of the stream are returned.
The \fIcollect\fP argument defines the direction of the packets that
will be returned: 
.B CLIENT_SIDE 
gives only client's data, 
.B SERVER_SIDE 
the server's data only, while 
.B BOTH_SIDE 
is used to get all packets of the flow.

Type of results: \fBnone\fP.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------
.IP "\fBREGEXP\fP (char* \fIreg_expr\fP)"
Regular expression pattern matching, using the \fIreg_expr\fP regular expression.

Type of results: \fBunsigned long long\fP.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------
.IP "\fBTOP\fP (int \fIX\fP, int \fIprotocol\fP, int \fIfield\fP)"
Return TOP \fIX\fP values of the \fIfield\fP field of the \fIprotocol\fP protocol.

Type of results: \fBunsigned int[]\fP.
.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports to mapi@uninett.no
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mapi (3), 
.BR mapi_trackflib (3),
.BR mapi_anonflib (3),
.BR tcpdump (1),
.BR pcap (3)
